Appendix C – Wildlife Hunting Rules &
Regulations
Fines amounts are set by the Committee, in coordination
with the Board, and are based on the offense severity,
number occurrences and minimum fine amount set for the
rule.
C-1: Annual Hunting Requirements:
*Complete/Submit Hunting Application:
Deer Application: See website
Elk Application: See website
*Attend Annual Hunter Orientation BEFORE your Hunting
Season Begins.
*Donate 6 Hours of Service OR Donate $240.00 ($40 per
Hour) by the 1st Saturday in August by 5:00 PM.
*Be a Resort Member in Good Standing year round.
*Deer & Elk Hunters: Must be a primary member for two
years prior to hunt. The member may assign the permit to
an immediate family member. Refer to Rule C-20-1.
*Bear & Moose Must be a primary member for two years
prior to hunt. Member hunt only.
*ALL State Rules/Licensing requirements apply.
C-2: Hunter Orientation Meetings:
Photo ID Required. Held at ECR the 1st Saturday in May at
8:00 am; 1st Saturday in June at 8:00 am; 1st Saturday in
Aug. at 8:00 am; and Friday before the Late Rifle Deer Hunt
at 7:00 pm. There will only be the (3) listed orientation
meetings – NO EXCEPTIONS. Amended March 21, 2024

C-3: Mandatory Service: Each hunter must annually
contribute a minimum of six (6) hours of service or
contribute $240.00 to the Resort. Work Days are available
to accomplish the service hours needed to hunt. If you
cannot attend one of the designated Work Days to
complete your hours, contact Outdoor Committee Chair or
Vice Chair for more information and dates. All hours /
payment needs to be completed/paid by 1st Saturday of
August by 5:00 p.m. for ALL BIG GAME HUNTS.
C-4: “
Work Day” Dates: 1st Sat. of May 9:00am, 1st Sat. of
June 9:00am, 1st Sat. of Aug. 9:00am
C-5: 2 Year Waiting Period. In November of 2018 the
resort implemented a two-year waiting period.
Memberships transferred before August 1st of any given
year will be given credit for the first year of the two-year
waiting period. Memberships transferred after August 1st
will not be eligible for the first-year credit.
C-6: Deer Rifle Opening Weekend: Late Hunt Opening
weekend rifle deer permits are limited to the first 150
eligible memberships. Each primary member who is eligible
for opening weekend (Saturday & Sunday) is limited to one
(1) hunting permit per membership, NO EXCEPTIONS. (See
rule C-20)

Annual Fees per Hunter:
C-7: Small Game: $20.00 (which includes) Cottontail
rabbits, snowshoe hares, coyotes, and forest grouse. All
small game hunters must attend a hunter safety meeting as
outlined in C-1.
C-8: Big Game: Includes all small game, and only the
following animals listed:
• Deer Buck: $65.00
• Deer Youth Hunters: $65.00 (18 years & younger)
• Dedicated Deer Hunters: $100.00
• Elk-Cow: $75.00
• Elk-Bull: $100.00
• Moose: $100.00
• Bear: $100.00
• Cougar hunting spot and stock: No fee
• Cougar hunting using dogs: $100.00 (This fee is
refundable with proof of harvest)
• All hunters must sign ECR hunting waivers prior to
all hunts
C-9: NO DOE HARVEST ALLOWED
NO TURKEY HARVEST ALLOWED
NO RUNNING DOGS ON ANY BULL ELK HUNTS
Cougar hunting using dogs must be on an active hunt. No
dog training. Amended March 21,2024
C-10: ECR Hunter Identification: Hunters need to pick up
a hunting packet prior to their hunting season. Please see or

call the Outdoor Committee Chair or Vice Chair to find out
pick-up dates and times. It is required for each hunter to
carry the appropriate Utah hunting licenses/permits and the
ECR hunting permit. ECR Hunting ID cards are required to be
worn by all hunters and must be visible at all times.
Members must provide Photo ID if requested. Amended
March 21, 2024
C-11: Security: ECR Hunting Security will be patrolling
during all hunts. Please make sure you have your ECR
Hunting ID visible and appropriate permits with you. If you
see/know of the rules/laws being broken please report to
the ECR Hunting Security or Resort Manager. Fines will be
given and possible membership penalties can/will be
applied. Trespassing by unauthorized hunters will be
enforced.
C-12: Resort Road Access: Some or all roads may be
closed during the hunting season due to weather & other
adverse conditions. Members cannot block access to any
ECR roads and /or properties. Refer to Rules 4.1.6 & 4.1.12
in the ECR Rule Book.
Permit Restrictions:
C-13: Bull Elk Permits: Archery (12),
Rifle (12) and Muzzleloader (12). Applicants are limited to
one (1) Elk permit per primary membership. Hunters must
choose a weapon when applying, refer to rule C-1. East
Canyon Resort is not honoring the new state of Utah
unlimited youth general-season elk permit on East Canyon

Resort property. For information regarding the limited entry
youth Elk tag please contact one of the outdoor committee
chairs.
C-14: Auctioned Bull and /or Cow Elk Permit: East
Canyon Resort has one (1) auction Bull and one (1) auction
Cow Permit. Auction will be held at the June Hunter
Orientation meeting. You or a representative must be
present to bid, and payment is due at the end of June
Hunter Orientation meeting. The winner of the Bull Elk
auction tag will be allowed to hunt the season coinciding
with the state tag. All Elk Hunting requirements apply, refer
to rule C-1. You must be a Primary Member, in Good
Standing, year-round. Amended March 21, 2024
C-15: Cow Elk permits: (30) Applicants are limited to one
(1) Cow Elk Permit, per primary membership, refer to rule C-
1. A member eligible to hunt cow elk on East Canyon Resort
property, may begin hunting the following day after the
archery hunt ends and hunt throughout the legal season.
The following exceptions apply:
• There is no cow elk hunting on the opening weekend of
the 1st rifle bull elk hunt (regardless of weapon), the 2nd
rifle elk hunt (regardless of weapon), and the muzzleloader
bull elk hunt (regardless of weapon).
• Archery cow hunters will begin after the archery bull hunt.
Amended March 21, 2024
C-16: Elk Bonus Point System: East Canyon Resort has
implemented an internal Bull & Cow Elk Bonus Point

System. If you applied for the previous year and were not
drawn, you will receive one (1) point. If you have any
questions, please contact the Outdoor Committee Chair or
Vice Chair.
C-17: Bear Hunting: Baiting is allowed when followed by
state guidelines and with ECR Outdoor Committee Chair and
Resort Manager’s approval. All hunters must attend a
hunter safety meeting as outlined in C-1.
C-18: Moose hunting: If you draw a State Permit to hunt
Moose at ECR, please contact the Outdoor Committee Chair
or Vice Chair. All hunters must attend a hunter safety
meeting as outlined in C-1.
C-19: Forest Grouse: Harvesting of forest grouse is
limited to two grouse per hunter per day. No grouse hunting
will be allowed during archery deer and archery elk seasons.
All hunters must attend a hunter safety meeting as outlined
in C-1.
C-20: Deer Hunting: 2025 Regulation-Eligible members
may apply for one (1) Deer permit, per membership. These
permits may be given to an immediate family member. All
state tags are open for this permit. Amended March 21,

C-20-1: Immediate family member includes:

Member’s parents, children, children’s spouse, or
grandchildren. All hunters must be accompanied by the ECR
member they applied with.
C-21: Utah Hunting Mentoring Program (UHMP): If you
will be participating in the UHMP, please contact the
Outdoor Committee Chair or Vice Chair. Must follow all
state rules for UHMP. Amended March 21, 2024
C-22: Accompanying Family Members and Guests: All
hunter’s family members and Guests must be accompanied
(meaning within voice range) by the primary member they
applied to hunt with while Hunting ECR properties.
C-23: Access to Forest Service and Salt Lake City
Corporation Properties: It is PROHIBITED to aid or assist
any person(s) access through East Canyon Resort property
without the hunter/person(s) having correct East Canyon
Resort hunting permit for species and gender of the current
hunt or being a member of East Canyon Resort.
C-24: Tree Stands: Tree Stands may be placed after
August 1st, and must be removed by Dec. 1st of the hunting
season. Each hunter is limited to ONE tree stand. ECR will
not be responsible for stolen or damaged hunting
equipment.
C-25: ATV Registration: Every ATV/OHV must be
inspected & registered by ECR before accessing any ECR
property. Registration and waivers must be renewed

annually. All drivers and passengers must sign a waiver at
the general store.
C-26: Saddlerock Property:
No hunting is allowed on Saddlerock property.
C-27: Relative Rights: Relative Rights Member(s) are not
allowed to hunt as a Relative Rights Member or hunt on
their own. All Relative Rights Member(s) must hunt using
one of the Full Members deer tags, which includes archery,
muzzle or rifle tags, and must comply with Rule C-22
(above).
C-28: Salt / Mineral Blocks: The Resort Board has
approved a moratorium on any placement of salt,
commercial supplement or mineral block. Does not include
those approved by Outdoors Committee Chair and Resort
Manager.
C-29 Hunter Orange: All hunters and non-hunters MUST
wear DNR approved hunter organe during any centerfire
rifle hunts
C-30: Hunting Violation: All violations including poaching,
trespassing or rules need to be reported to ECR
Management, Security or Outdoors Committee Chair.
Morgan County Sheriff’s Office Dispatch:
NON- EMERGENCY: 801- 829-0590

(If this is concerning a wildlife issue ask them to dispatch the
on-call DNR Wildlife Officer)
Any wildlife wounded that crosses neighboring properties
requires DWR authorization, along with neighboring
landowner authority. Resort staff, members or committee
members cannot authorize any action. And follow C-30.
Please see our website for changes, updates, or additional
information (or call).
www.eastcanyon.com




